## Directory Setup
- Create new directory for each run
- VASP creates like 20 files in parent directory for each run

## Notes
- Friday and Tuesday evening emails for progress update
- Keep diary of work, what was impressive, commendable, etc.
- Primary project proposal and report brown bag talks
- At the end of 5 weeks, look at paper - final report
- Store materials on antec3
- computation on materials - use nice and renice schedulers when doing runs
- oxford solid state basics simon ISBN 0199680779
- The VASP Manual - Bulk Systems
- Kittel Solid State Physics - ch1: do the problem set
- Check share folder
- Email Irving to install helix on antec/materials
- POSCAR specifies positions of atoms in lattice
- POTCAR: specifies potentials for each element in the same file. Grab from Victor's directory
- for KPOINTS, make KPOINTS for each lattice vector inversely proportional to each other
- ENCUT in INCAR: Take maximum ENMAX value from POTCAR for value
- ISMEAR is 0, SIGMA is 0.04-0.05 eV
- KPAR in INCAR: set to # of irreducible KPoints  / # of cores or something nice like that
- NCORE: $4 - \sqrt{\textup{Num. of cores}}$ 
- IBRION: Choose 2 if you don;t know what to do, look at wiki page
- ISIF: look art table. For Si, we know cell shape, just changing atom positions, so 2. 
- NSW: How many steps (depth of minimization search) before vasp gives up. 50 is a good value, 200 max
- EDIFF: tells you the energy change when the substeps stops. Basically how minimized the energy can get before moving an atom. 10^-4 is a standard, for long runs 10^-3 works great.
- EDIFFG: Maximum force on any atom needed to reach before relaxation stops *if negative*. -0.01 is a max, -0.005 is pretty standard
- LWAVE and LCHARG: will write large files if set to true that allow you to start a run not from beginning. Like object files. Do not enable on many runs.
- First try to converge kpoints for silicon , for actual material we will be futzing with other variables
- For lattice constant minim: vary scalar distance constant in POSCAR, do multiple runs, plot lattice energy against that constant or vector magnitude and use python to fit to quadratic, get minimum

Figure out SFTP to transfer files

- Play with setting ISIF=3 (change cell shape and volume)
	- Set ENCUT to 1.3* normal ENCUT
	- NSW > 0
	- Make sure KPAR subdivides # of nodes
	- If we get an error bc force tolerance is not hit, make it closer to 0 (1e-4 -> 1e-6)

Look at VASP wiki under bulk silicon DOS (Density of States)

Okay so the data might have been bad, runs 1.01 and 1.02 were identical. Trying again...

### Important
If this error comes up:
```
mpiexec: Command not found.
[1]  + Exit 1                        ( nice -$NICENESS mpiexec -n $N_CPUS vasp_std > outfile )
```

make sure to reinitialize the aliased intel functions before trying again

## New ways to approach analyzing the structure of this crystal

We need to split up the unit cell into smaller groups so that we can run VASP. Victor did spherical sites around each atom site. We are suggesting a layered approach where we analyze each strata of the unit cell. 

We might try to target the band gap instead - minimize the error between the simulated and experimental band gaps - valence band max and conduction band min

Need to learn how to make a POSCAR file - calculate locations of each atom

### Plan for the next day or so
- [ ] Read papers/books that were sent to me and take notes and ask questions
- [ ] Develop a procedure proposal based off of [[#New ways to approach analyzing the structure of this crystal]]
- [ ] Do some napkin math to figure out the estimated computing cost of using a layer method

## Band Structure / Density of States 6/2
- DOS run: No relaxation, `ISIF = 0`, `IBRION = -1`, `NSW = -1`
	- Do this after an atomic relaxation run (change `CONTCAR` to new `POSCAR`)
- Look up pymatgen to generate DOS graph
- get plots working
- Band structure VASP tutorial
- Read papers and textbook - continue the kittel tommorrow: chapter 2
- Look up wtf is a kpoint - read chapter on recip space in kittel. 
- Look up DFT, spin orbit coupling, band gap problem (DFT) and [read this](https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/popout?ver=1qqr1cllh4hhb#attid%253Datt_18871a7232c6db52_0.4_be5a502c_fa37c968_4c24cb6c_19d50564_a00ddf8c%25252Fsansom-jacs-2021_s.pdf) 
	- Okay in short it basically uses an electron density field to approximate calculations for each electron and circumvent the impossible to solve wavefunction?
- ChemDASH research paper

## Kittel Ch. 2 - Wave Diffraction and the Reciprocal Lattice
- Various statements of the Bragg condition:
	$2d\sin{\theta} = n\lambda$ ; $\boldsymbol{\Delta}\textbf{k} = \textbf{G}$ ; $2\textbf{k} \cdot \textbf{G} = \textbf{G}^2$ .
- Laue conditions:
	$\textbf{a}_1 \cdot \boldsymbol{\Delta}\textbf{k} = 2\pi v_1$ ; $\textbf{a}_2 \cdot \boldsymbol{\Delta}\textbf{k} = 2\pi v_2$ ;  $\textbf{a}_3 \cdot \boldsymbol{\Delta}\textbf{k} = 2\pi v_3$ .
- The primitive translation vectors of the reciprocal lattice are:
	$$\textbf{b}_1 = 2\pi \frac{\textbf{a}_2 \times \textbf{a}_3}{\textbf{a}_1 \cdot \textbf{a}_2 \times \textbf{a}_3}$$
	$$\textbf{b}_2 = 2\pi \frac{\textbf{a}_3 \times \textbf{a}_1}{\textbf{a}_1 \cdot \textbf{a}_2 \times \textbf{a}_3}$$
	$$\textbf{b}_3 = 2\pi \frac{\textbf{a}_1 \times \textbf{a}_2}{\textbf{a}_1 \cdot \textbf{a}_2 \times \textbf{a}_3}$$
	Here $\textbf{a}_1$ , $\textbf{a}_2$ , and $\textbf{a}_3$ are the primitive translation vectors of the reciprocal lattice.
- A reciprocal lattice vector has the form:
	$$\textbf{G} = v_1\textbf{b}_1 + v_2\textbf{b}_2 + v_3\textbf{b}_3$$
	where $v_1$ , $v_2$ , $v_3$ are integers
- The scattered amplitude in the direction $\textbf{k'} = \textbf{k} + \boldsymbol{\Delta}\textbf{k} = \textbf{k} + \textbf{G}$ is proportional to the geometrical structure factor:
	$$S_\textbf{G} \equiv \sum f_j \exp{\left(-i\textbf{r}_j \cdot \textbf{G}\right)} = \sum f_j \exp{\left[-i2\pi \left(x_jv_1 + y_jv_2 + z_jv_3\right)\right]}$$
	where $j$ runs over the $s$ atoms of the basis, and $f_j$ is the atomic form factor of the $j$ th atom of the basis. The expression on the right-hand side is written for a reflection $\left(v_1v_2v_3\right)$ , for which $\textbf{G} = v_1\textbf{b}_1 + v_2\textbf{b}_2 + v_3\textbf{b}_3$ .
- Any function invariant under a lattice transformation $\textbf{T}$ may be expanded in a Fourier series of the form
	$$n(\textbf{r}) = \sum_{\textbf{G}}{n_{\textbf{G}} \exp{\left(i\textbf{G} \cdot \textbf{r}\right)}}$$
- The first Brillouin zone is the Wigner-Seitz primitive cell of the reciprocal lattice. Only waves whose wavevector $\textbf{k}$ drawn from the origin terminates on the surface of the Brilliouin zone can be diffracted by the crystal.

|Crystal lattice|First Brillouin zone|
|-|-|
|Simple cubic|Cube|
|Body-centered cubic|Rhombic dodecahedron|
|Face-centered cubic|Truncated octahedron|

## Kittel Ch. 8 - Semiconductor Crystals
- The motion of a wave packet centered at wavevector $\textbf{k}$ is described by $\textbf{F} = \hbar d\textbf{k}/dt$ , where $\textbf{F}$ is the applied force. The motion in real space is obtained from the group velocity $\textbf{v}_g = \hbar^{-1}\nabla_{\textbf{k}}\epsilon\left(\textbf{k}\right)$ .
- The smaller the energy gap, the smaller is the effective mass $|m^*|$ near the gap.
- A crystal with one hole has one empty electron state in an otherwise filled band. The properties of the hole are those of the $N-1$ electrons in this band.
	1. If the electron is missing form the state of wavevector $\textbf{k}_e$ , then the wavevector of the hole is $\textbf{k}_h = -\textbf{k}_e$ .
	2. The rate of change of $\textbf{k}_h$ in an applied field requires the assignment of a positive charge to the hole: $e_h = e = -e_e$ .
	3. If $\boldsymbol{v}_e$ is the velocity an electron would have in the state $\mathbf{k}_e$ , then the velocity to be ascribed to the hole of wavevector $\mathbf{k}_{h} = -\mathbf{k}_e$ is $\boldsymbol{v}_h = \boldsymbol{v}_e$ .
	4. The energy of the hole referred to zero for a filled band is positive and is $\mathbf{\epsilon}_h\left(\mathbf{k}_h\right) = -\mathbf{\epsilon}\left(\mathbf{k_{\epsilon}}\right)$ .
	5. The effective mass of a hole is opposite the the effective mass of an electron at the same point on the energy band: $m_h = -m_e$ .

## Simon Ch. 5 - The Periodic Table
- Filling of atomic shells gives the structure of the periodic table   (Aufbau principle and Madelung’s rule).  
- Elements in the same column of the periodic table (with a few exceptions) have the same number of electrons in the outermost shells, and hence have similar chemical properties.  
- The idea of screening and effective nuclear charge explains a number of the periodic trends going across the rows of the periodic table.

## Simon Ch. 6 - Chemical Bonding

| Type of Bonding                               | Description                                                                                                                                                      | Typical of which compounds                                                                                                                                             | Typical properties                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Ionic                                         | Electron is transferred from one atom to another, and the resulting ions attract each other.                                                                     | Binary compounds made of constituents with very different electronegativity: e.g, group I-VII compounds such as $\text{NaCl}$.                                         | <ul><li>Hard, very brittle</li><li>High melting temperature</li><li>Electrical insulator</li><li>Water soluble</li></ul>                                                     
| Covalent                                      | Electron is shared between two atoms forming a bond. Energy lowered by delocalization of wavefunction.                                                           | Compounds made of constituents with similar electronegativities (e.g., III–V compounds such as $\text{GaAs}$), or solids made of one element only such as diamond (C). | <ul><li>Very hard (brittle)</li><li>High melting temperature</li><li>Electrical insulators or semiconductors</li></ul>                                                                                     
| Metallic                                      | Electrons are delocalized throughout the solid forming a glue between positive ions.                                                                             | Metals. Left and middle of periodic table.                                                                                                                             | <ul><li>Ductile, malleable (due to non-directional nature of bond). Can be hardened by adding certain impurities.</li><li>Lower melting temperature</li><li>Good electrical and thermal conductors</li></ul>
| Molecular (van der Waals, fluctuating dipole) | No transfer of electrons. Dipole moments on constituents align to cause attraction. Bonding strength increases with size of molecule or polarity of constituent. | Noble gas solids, solids made of non-polar (or slightly polar) molecules binding to each other (wax).                                                                  | <ul><li>Soft, weak</li><li>Low melting temperature</li><li>Electrical insulators</li></ul>                                                                                                                 
| Hydrogen                                      | Involves hydrogen ion bound to one atom but still attracted to another. Special case because $\text{H}$ is so small.                                             | Important in organic and biological materials. Holds together ice.                                                                                                     | <ul><li>Weak bond (stronger than vdW though)</li><li>Important for maintaining shape of DNA and proteins</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                  

## Simon Ch. 9.1
**Principle 9.1:** A system which is periodic in real space with a periodicity $a$ will be periodic in reciprocal space with periodicity $2\pi / a$

## Simon Ch. 12 - Crystal Structure
- Definition of a lattice in three different ways.
	- A lattice is an infinite set of points defined by integer sums of a set of linearly independent primitive lattice vectors.
	- A lattice is an infinite set of vectors where addition of any two vectors in the set gives a third vector in the set.
	- A lattice is a set of points where the environment of any given point is equivalent to the environment of any other given point.
- Definition of a unit cell for a periodic structure, and definition of a primitive unit cell and a conventional unit cell
	- A unit cell is a region of space such that when many identical units are stacked together it tiles (completely fills) all of space and reconstructs the full structure.
	- A unit cell is the repeated motif which is the elementary building block of the periodic structure.
	- A primitive unit cell for a periodic crystal is a unit cell containing exactly one lattice point.
	- A conventional unit cell is a unit cell which is not primitive in order to make it simpler to work with.
- Definition and construction of the Wigner-Seitz (primitive) unit cell.
	- Given a lattice point, the set of all points in space which are closer to that given lattice point than to any other lattice point constitute the Wigner-Seitz cell of the given lattice point.
- One can write any periodic structure in terms of a lattice and a basis
- In 3d, know the simple cubic lattice, the fcc lattice and the bcc lattices in particular. Orthorhombic and tetragonal lattices are also very useful to know.
- The fcc and bcc lattices can be thought of as simple cubic lattices with a basis.
- Know how to read a plain view of a structure.

## Simon Ch. 13 - Reciprocal Lattice, Brillouin Zone, Waves in Crystals
- The reciprocal lattice is a lattice in $k$-space defined by the set of points such that $e^{i\mathbf{G}\cdot\mathbf{R}} = 1$ for all $\mathbf{R}$ in the direct lattice. Given this definition, the reciprocal lattice can be thought of as the Fourier transform of the direct lattice.
- A reciprocal lattice vector $\mathbf{G}$ defines a set of parallel equally spaced planes via $\mathbf{G} \cdot \mathbf{r} = 2\pi m$ such that every point of the direct lattice is included in one of the planes. The spacing between the planes is $d = 2\pi / |\mathbf{G}|$. If $\mathbf{G}$ is the smallest reciprocal lattice vector parallel to $\mathbf{G}$ than this set of planes is a family of lattice planes, meaning that all planes intersect points of the direct lattice.
- Miller Indices $(h, k, l)$ are used to describe families of lattice planes, or reciprocal lattice vectors.
- The general definition of Brillouin zone is any unit cell in reciprocal space. The first Brillouin zone is the Wigner-Seitz cell around the point $\mathbf{0}$ of the reciprocal lattice. Each Brillouin zone has the same volume and contains one $k$-state per unit cell of the entire system. Parallel Brillouin zone boundaries are separated by reciprocal lattice vectors.

## [[Procedure Proposal]]

We have layers 1, 2, 1, 2, 1
Layer 1 has 1xOct1 (34.6% $\text{Ag}^+$ , 30.6% $\text{Bi}^{3+}$ ) and 1xCu1 (17.9% $\text{Cu}^+$ ). Layer 2 Has 2xCu2 (17.9% $\text{Cu}^+$ ). 

Base Cell has 3 Layer 1s and 2 layer 2s

All octahedrons are surrounded on all sides by tetrahedra

**Note: the tetrahedra and octahedra are slightly irregular, see [the initial paper](https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/#search/barone/KtbxLwhCGXLPMvdWlnxCNwhtdzjQPtLffL?projector=1&messagePartId=0.3)**

8 iodine per octahedra are all shared with tetrahedra - give one iodine per tetrahedra and none to the octahedra?

That maths out to 3 Ag/Bi/Va sites, 7 Cu/Va sites, and 7 I

Max # of configurations: $3^3 * 7^2 = 1323$
I think I need a better picture of what the actual model is... email time!

Okay... we're looking at a 3x3x1 crystal. Max # of configs = $27^3 * 63^2 = 78121827$ total sites?

If we're conservative and say that each VASP run would be 5 min long (they'll be longer), than we'd be looking at a total of 271256 hours total runtime?

